Stable optimal borrow - Review (#65)
bgd-labs/aave-proposals-v3: src/20231113_Multi_IncreaseStablecoinOptimalBorrowRates/IncreaseStablecoinOptimalBorrowRates.md

---
title: "Increase Stablecoin Optimal Borrow Rates"
author: "monet-supply + Gauntlet (impl: Alice Rozengarden (@Rozengarden - Aave-chan initiative))"
discussions: "https://governance.aave.com/t/arfc-increase-optimal-borrow-rates-for-ethereum-stablecoin-markets/15096/3"
---

## Simple Summary

> This AIP propose to modifie the parameters of stablecoins accross all the aave markets. Mainly by setting the slope1 to 5%, as well as changing the RF and Uopt of some of them.

Reviewer: I would specify more on the RF change and uOpt (maybe as its explained on snapshot: https://snapshot.org/#/aave.eth/proposal/0xb9b28f57f7633dd6b987de9abcede23da62fe4fab6b002f189b8b25a7c02ea93 )

Reviewer 2: I tried, let me know If it's enought

> - [Snapshot](https://snapshot.org/#/aave.eth/proposal/0x914862039828294f4277ad63087ffae295b7693ba365c9036326cca802bfc7af, 0xb9b28f57f7633dd6b987de9abcede23da62fe4fab6b002f189b8b25a7c02ea93)

Reviewer: lets maybe add link to both

Reviewer 2: done

---
title: "Increase Stablecoin Optimal Borrow Rates"
author: "monet-supply + Gauntlet (impl: Alice Rozengarden (@Rozengarden - Aave-chan initiative))"
discussions: "https://governance.aave.com/t/arfc-increase-optimal-borrow-rates-for-ethereum-stablecoin-markets/15096/3"
---

## Simple Summary

> This AIP propose to modifie the parameters of stablecoins accross all the aave markets. Mainly by setting the slope1 to 5%, as well as changing the RF to 25% and Uopt to 90% of some of them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This AIP propose to modify the parameters of stablecoins across all the Aave pools. Mainly by setting the slope1 to 5%, as well as changing the RF to 25% and Uopt to 90% of some of them.
```

## Motivation

> According to [researchs](https://governance.aave.com/t/arfc-increase-optimal-borrow-rates-for-ethereum-stablecoin-markets/15096/3) by @monet-supply, the borrowing parameters of the stabloecoins on Aave have diverged from the broader market leading to potentials inefficiencies and bad user experience.

Reviewer 3: i think research has no plural
```suggestion
According to [research](https://governance.aave.com/t/arfc-increase-optimal-borrow-rates-for-ethereum-stablecoin-markets/15096/3) by @monet-supply, the borrowing parameters of the stablecoins on Aave have diverged from the broader market leading to potentials inefficiencies and bad user experience.
```

Those proposed changes have been approved by both risk providers, with additional suggestion by @Gauntlet. 

Stablecoin across all the V2 and V3 markets are concerned by those change. Namely USDC, USDT, LUSD, FRAX, sUSD, DAI, MAI, GUSD, USDP on ethereum (V2 and V3), polygon (V2 and V2), Arbitrum, Gnosis, Optimism, Avalanche (v2 and V3) and Metis. However the changes of RF and Uopt would be more limited, with the Uopt changes being limited to USDC, USDT, DAI and FRAX across all V3s and the RF ones to USDC, USDT and LUSD only for Ethereum V2.

## Specification

The following stablecoins would see changes to their parameters:

> (Blank means no chages)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(Blank means no changes)
```

> - Snapshot: [Slope1](https://snapshot.org/#/aave.eth/proposal/0x914862039828294f4277ad63087ffae295b7693ba365c9036326cca802bfc7af), [Uopt & RF]( 0xb9b28f57f7633dd6b987de9abcede23da62fe4fab6b002f189b8b25a7c02ea93)

Reviewer: Uopt and RF still doesnt link to any valid url, you are missing the snapshot part of url

Author: fixed
